## Project brief 
Design and construct an autonomous lane-following robot that can safely complete a predetermined track as quickly as possible, while adhering to specified cost, weight, and size constraints, with an innovative and aesthetic design.
Given the client’s instructions and constraints, a concise statement was put together that fully outlines everything needed to know about the design topic and proposed solution.

## Problem statement
In response to the challenge of transportation safety, and in collaboration with Redback Racing, the project challenges each team to design an autonomous vehicle that can reliably traverse the preset racetrack at a high performance (fastest time). With a given budget of $100, a weight and size constraint of 500g and respectively, the vehicle is to safely traverse the track while remaining within the lanes. In addition, the vehicle should be an innovative design and aesthetically pleasing to the observer.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
## Design
The final design for the challenge was a 3-wheeled, AA-battery powered robot. The base was laser cut from 2mm acrylic because of the high structural integrity of acrylic that outweighs other alternatives. The vehicle cover was 3D printed for its advanced shape. We used a dual motor, 3-wheel steering system because two motors as opposed to one allow double the power output.
The power source for the design was chosen carefully to maximise energy efficiency. Initially, 9V battery was used but the battery did not last long enough to allow the car to traverse three laps around the track. Through research on ways to generate a more effective 9V power source with a larger capacity, it was quickly settled on using six AA batteries to power the device. While this worked well for the project, a better idea would be to use the 11-volt LiPo battery in the future due to its longevity, reliability, and ease of recharging.
The team decided on using four individual IR sensors to analyse its surroundings as they had a very simple and effective way of signalling its location with respect to the black lines on the track. IR sensors are very easy on the pocket and weigh around 5 grams per unit, allowing the team to easily make weight constraints without sacrificing on other features of the robot. However, using a 5(or more)-channel IR sensor may improve the reliability and precision of the robot, while enabling it to move faster around the track and complete the laps much quicker.
In the final race, the goal of completing three laps of a racetrack autonomously was accomplished. The design did well, placing fifth and sixth for aesthetics and innovation respectively. Overall, this performance put the team at fourth place out of all teams that participated in the competition. The final design was well within the budget, size, and weight restrictions. Nonetheless, there are opportunities to optimise the design for increased speed, fine-tune the steering system, consider alternative sensor configurations, and incorporate redundancy measures.
